# Traffic-Sign_recognition
# Abstract
Detecting the traffic signals which are present on either side of the roads is very important to maintain the safety. It plays an essential role in intelligent transportation system. But now due to the ease in the demand for autonomous cars (Automation), where the cars can be driven without the physical presence of humans, this recognition of the signs become much more important. The system can be utilized for driver assis- tance and also helps in reducing accidents. Not Only for Self-Driving Cars but even to human drivers, it is difficult to recognize the traffic signs in situations like Driving at nights, in different weather conditions which is dangerous for both human drivers and also pedestrains.Sometimes human insight mistakes of seeing such traffic signs may lead to accidents, this can be avoided by using the model. Traffic signs provide infor- mation about the traffic rules, road conditions and route directions and assist the drivers for better and safe driving. Traffic sign detection and recognition system has two main stages: The first stage involves the traffic sign localization and the second stage classi- fies the detected traffic signs into a particular class.
So, this project is all about capturing the images of the traffic signboards which are present on either side of the road, loading those images into the Interface made using GUI, then recognizing and outputting its caption. There are almost 50 different traffic signs which determines speed limits, condition of roads etc. This recognition is done by making the Neural network get trained with the training data and testedy. So, after recognizing the sign, a decision will be taken accordingly just as humans do to maintain the traffic rules and safety. We have to use python OpenCV, and CNN to do this project.
# Purpose
Traffic signs play a vital role in reducing accidents and thus by ensuring drivers’ safety. They Inform road users of the distance left to cover to reach a destination and also caution road users of hazards near areas such as schools and colleges. Therefore the main purpose of the system is to use the technology in transportation. Traffic Sign Recognition may be a field that’s involved with the detection and recognition of road and traffic signs in traffic scenes noninheritable by a camera. it’s a method that uses laptop vision and computing to extract the road signs from outside pictures taken in uncontrolled lighting conditions wherever these signs are also occluded by alternative objects and should suffer from totally different issues like color weakening, disorientation, and variations in form and size. TSR systems square measure a crucial part of driverless cars obtaining them alert to the present public road traffic laws.
# Existing System
A generic system that can be used in both personal and mobile computing environments based on a high-quality web camera video stream, it is used to fed the model with the input which may be a static image, dynamic image or an image in real life situations.
Web camera outputs a YUV420 encoded MPEG4 video at 1600x1200 frame resolution with 25fps. 2 million pixels to be processed in 40ms requires all algorithms to be linear or at least quasi-linear.
Few Models used Machine Learning Classifiers like SVM ,but however failed achieve good accuracy of the system. Some of the models are only capable of detecting only specified shaped signs. However the computation of the models were high and speed was low so the models failed to achieve good accuracy.
# Proposed System
In the proposed model, we are using Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) which are specially designed for image classification to overcome the time delay. In, this model we are taking the traffic signs dataset from Kaggle which contains more than 50,000 images classified into 43 different classes.
The Convolutional Neural Networks are specially designed for image classification. So, the use of CNN can classify the images quickly and accurately so that the response time for the consequent decision can be increased.
# REQUIREMENT SPECIFICATIONS
Software Requirements:
The functional requirements or the overall description documents include the product perspective and features, operating system and operating environment, graphics requirements, design constraints and user documentation.
The appropriation of requirements and implementation constraints gives the general overview of the project in regards to what the areas of strength and deficit are and how to tackle them.
• Python-3.7 or greater
• Pycharm IDE which provides wide range of essential tools.
• PackagesofsupportingmoduleslikeTensorFlow,Keras,NumPy,pandas,sklearn,OpenCVetc
Hardware Requirements:
Minimum hardware requirements are very dependent on the particular software being developed by a given En thought Python . Applications that need to store large arrays/objects in memory will require more RAM, whereas applications that need to perform numerous cal- culations or tasks more quickly will require a faster processor.
1. Processor : Core i5/i7 processor
2. RAM: Atleast 4GB (or) Higher
3. Hard disk: At least 60 GB of Usable Hard Disk Space
# IMPLEMENTATION
The implementation stage of any project is a true display of the defining moments that make a project a success or a failure. The implementation stage is defined as the system or system modifications being installed and made operational in a production environment. The phase is initiated after the system has been tested and accepted by the user. This phase continues until the system is operating in production in accordance with the defined user requirements.
# Software Environment INTERFACE-PYCHARM


One of the most common Python IDEs is PyCharm. This is because it is built by Jet- Brains, the developer behind the popular IntelliJ Concept IDE, one of the larger 3 Java IDEs and the “most clever JavaScript IDE” WebStorm. There are many reasons why this is so. Another credible explanation is that it has the assistance of web creation by using Django.
There are numerous factors that make PyCharm an integrated development environment for working with the Python programming language that is most comprehensive and complete.
# python packages
# Numpy

NumPy is the fundamental package for scientific computing in Python. It is a Python library that provides a multidimensional array object, various derived objects (such as masked arrays and matrices), and an assortment of routines for fast operations on arrays, including mathe- matical, logical, shape manipulation, sorting, selecting, I/O, discrete Fourier transforms, basic linear algebra, basic statistical operations, random simulation and much moreTabular data with heterogeneously-typed columns, as in an SQL table or Excel spreadsheet
# Matplotlib
Matplotlib is a plotting library for the Python programming language and its numerical mathe- matics extension NumPy. It provides an object-oriented API for embedding plots into applica- tions using general-purpose GUI toolkits like Tkinter, wxPython, Qt, or GTK+. There is also a procedural ”pylab” interface based on a state machine (like OpenGL), designed to closely resemble that of MATLAB, though its use is discouraged.[3] SciPy makes use of Matplotlib.
# Keras
Keras is an open-source high-level Neural Network library, which is written in Python is capa- ble enough to run on Theano, TensorFlow, or CNTK. It was developed by one of the Google engineers, Francois Chollet. It is made user-friendly, extensible, and modular for facilitating faster experimentation with deep neural networks. It not only supports Convolutional Networks and Recurrent Networks individually but also their combination. It cannot handle low-level computations, so it makes use of the Backend library to resolve it. The backend library act as a high-level API wrapper for the low-level API, which lets it run on TensorFlow, CNTK, or Theano.
# TensorFlow
TensorFlow is a free and open-source software library for machine learning and artificial intelli- gence. It can be used across a range of tasks but has a particular focus on training and inference of deep neural networks. TensorFlow is an open-source software library. TensorFlow was originally developed by researchers and engineers working on the Google Brain Team within Google’s Machine Intelligence research organization for the purposes of conducting machine learning and deep neural networks research, but the system is general enough to beapplica- ble in a wide variety of other domains as well .TensorFlow is basically a software library for numerical computation using data flow graphs.
# OPENCV
TensorFlow is a free and open-source software library for machine learning and artificial intelli- gence. It can be used across a range of tasks but has a particular focus on training and inference of deep neural networks. TensorFlow is an open-source software library. TensorFlow was originally developed by researchers and engineers working on the Google Brain Team within Google’s Machine Intelligence research organization for the purposes of conducting machine learning and deep neural networks research, but the system is general enough to beapplica- ble in a wide variety of other domains as well .TensorFlow is basically a software library for numerical computation using data flow graphs.
# RESULTS
The main idea for this project is from the road accidents that take place due to drivers’ igno- rance of traffic signs. This system is used to save valuable life by preventing accidents due to the negligence of traffic signs boards. At present 40that are taking place these days are mainly due to road accidents. People die in these road accidents which is a great loss for the family. Our project provides maximum efficiency and is user-friendly. The Results of the sys- tem are showing below using OpenCV, the input image is fed to the system, which shows the corresponding class with its probability. The dataset consists of 43 different Classes.
# conclusion
Now a days due to increase in population the number of vehicles on the road are increas- ing, which causing a lot of confusion in maintaining traffic and many accidents are taking place due to not knowing the traffic signs properly.Detecting the traffic signals which are present on either side of the roads is very important to maintain the safety. So, this project is all about capturing the images of the traffic signboards which are present on either side of the road and generating a message accordingly. Hence, this project can be utilized for driver’s assistance and also helps in reducing accidents.
